ruby/README.md, before:

# Ruby code for RabbitMQ tutorials

Here you can find Ruby code examples from
[RabbitMQ tutorials](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html).

## Requirements

To run this code you need [amqp gem](https://github.com/ruby-amqp/amqp) version 0.8
(currently available as a prerelease version). This code won't work
with earlier versions! You can install it via RubyGems thusly:

    gem install amqp --pre --version "~> 0.8.0.rc12"

## Code

[Tutorial one: "Hello World!"](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-one-python.html):

    ruby send.rb
    ruby receive.rb

[Tutorial two: Work Queues](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-two-python.html):

    ruby new_task.rb
    ruby worker.rb

[Tutorial three: Publish/Subscribe](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-three-python.html)

    ruby receive_logs.rb
    ruby emit_log.rb

[Tutorial four: Routing](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-four-python.html)

    ruby receive_logs_direct.rb
    ruby emit_log_direct.rb

[Tutorial five: Topics](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-five-python.html)

    ruby receive_logs_topic.rb
    ruby emit_log_topic.rb

[Tutorial six: RPC](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-six-python.html)

    ruby rpc_server.rb
    ruby rpc_client.rb

To learn more, visit [Ruby AMQP gem documentation](http://rdoc.info/github/ruby-amqp/amqp/master/frames) site.

Commit message:

Recommend Windows users to go with JRuby
Signed-off-by: Michael S. Klishin <michael@novemberain.com>

ruby/README.md, after:

# Ruby code for RabbitMQ tutorials

Here you can find Ruby code examples from
[RabbitMQ tutorials](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html).

## Requirements

If you use Microsoft Windows, we highly recommend you to use [JRuby](http://jruby.org).
It is 1.9.2-compatible since 1.6.0.

To run this code you need [amqp gem](https://github.com/ruby-amqp/amqp) version 0.8
(currently available as a prerelease version). This code won't work
with earlier versions!

You can install it via RubyGems. On Linux, Mac OS X and *BSD systems:

    gem install amqp --pre --version "~> 0.8.0.rc12"

On Windows:

    jruby.exe --1.9 -S gem install amqp --pre --version "~> 0.8.0.rc12"

## Code

[Tutorial one: "Hello World!"](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-one-python.html):

    ruby send.rb
    ruby receive.rb

[Tutorial two: Work Queues](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-two-python.html):

    ruby new_task.rb
    ruby worker.rb

[Tutorial three: Publish/Subscribe](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-three-python.html)

    ruby receive_logs.rb
    ruby emit_log.rb

[Tutorial four: Routing](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-four-python.html)

    ruby receive_logs_direct.rb
    ruby emit_log_direct.rb

[Tutorial five: Topics](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-five-python.html)

    ruby receive_logs_topic.rb
    ruby emit_log_topic.rb

[Tutorial six: RPC](http://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorial-six-python.html)

    ruby rpc_server.rb
    ruby rpc_client.rb

To learn more, visit [Ruby AMQP gem documentation](http://rdoc.info/github/ruby-amqp/amqp/master/frames) site.
