README.md, before:

# RabbitMQ Tutorials

This project contains code for [RabbitMQ tutorials](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html) with
their ports to various languages.

## Languages

The following ports are available:

 * [C#](./dotnet)
 * [C# (with Visual Studio)](./dotnet-visual-studio)
 * [Clojure](./clojure)
 * [Common Lisp](./common-lisp)
 * [Elixir](./elixir) 
 * [Erlang](./erlang)
 * [Go](./go)
 * [Haskell](./haskell)
 * [JavaScript (with Node and amqp-node)](./javascript-nodejs) (using callbacks)
 * [JavaScript (with Node and amqp-node)](https://github.com/squaremo/amqp.node/tree/master/examples) (using promises/futures)
 * [Java](./java)
 * [Java (with IntelliJ IDEA)](./java-idea)
 * [PHP (with php-amqplib)](./php)
 * [PHP (with php-amqp)](./php-amqp)
 * [PHP (with queue-interop)](./php-interop)
 * [Perl](./perl)
 * [Python (with Pika)](./python)
 * [Ruby (with Bunny)](./ruby)
 * [Scala](./scala)
 * [Swift](./swift)
 * [Spring AMQP](./spring-amqp)
 
## License

Released under the [Apache License 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).

Commit message:

Link to tutorial texts
that list prerequisites and more.

References #149.

README.md, after:

# RabbitMQ Tutorials

This project contains code for [RabbitMQ tutorials](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html) with
their ports to various languages.

This repository only contains runnable code. Please consult [tutorials on the site](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html)
to learn more about [the concepts](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html), requirements, supported client library version and so on.

All tutorials **require a RabbitMQ node running on localhost** with stock (default) settings.

## Languages

The following ports are available:

 * [C#](./dotnet)
 * [C# (with Visual Studio)](./dotnet-visual-studio)
 * [Clojure](./clojure)
 * [Common Lisp](./common-lisp)
 * [Elixir](./elixir) 
 * [Erlang](./erlang)
 * [Go](./go)
 * [Haskell](./haskell)
 * [JavaScript (with Node and amqp-node)](./javascript-nodejs) (using callbacks)
 * [JavaScript (with Node and amqp-node)](https://github.com/squaremo/amqp.node/tree/master/examples) (using promises/futures)
 * [Java](./java)
 * [Java (with IntelliJ IDEA)](./java-idea)
 * [PHP (with php-amqplib)](./php)
 * [PHP (with php-amqp)](./php-amqp)
 * [PHP (with queue-interop)](./php-interop)
 * [Perl](./perl)
 * [Python (with Pika)](./python)
 * [Ruby (with Bunny)](./ruby)
 * [Scala](./scala)
 * [Swift](./swift)
 * [Spring AMQP](./spring-amqp)
 
## License

Released under the [Apache License 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).
