spring-amqp/README.md, before:

#RabbitMQ Tutorial Sample Application

This project implements each of the [6 RabbitMQ Tutorials][1] using Spring AMQP.

It is a CLI app that uses Spring Profiles to control its behavior.  Each tutorial is a trio of classes:
sender, receiver, and configuration.

[1]: https://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html

##Usage

The app uses Spring Profiles to control what tutorial it's running, and if it's a
Sender or Receiver.  Choose which tutorial to run by using these profiles:

- {tut1|hello-world},{sender|receiver}
- {tut2|work-queues},{sender|receiver}
- {tut3|pub-sub|publish-subscribe},{sender|receiver}
- {tut4|routing},{sender|receiver}
- {tut5|topics},{sender|receiver}
- {tut6|rpc},{client|server}

After building with maven, run the app however you like to run boot apps.

For example:
```
java -jar rabbitmq-tutorials.jar --spring.profiles.active=work-queues,sender
```

For tutorials 1-5, run the Receiver followed by the Sender.

For tutorial 6, run the Server followed by the Client.

##Configuration

When running receivers/servers it's useful to set the duration the app runs to a longer time.  Do this by setting
the `tutorial.client.duration` property.

```
java -jar rabbitmq-tutorials.jar --spring.profiles.active=tut2,receiver,remote --tutorial.client.duration=60000
```

By default, Spring AMQP uses localhost to connect to RabbitMQ.  In the sample, the `remote` profile
causes Spring to load the properties in `application-remote.yml` that are used for testing with a
non-local server.  Set your own properties in the one in the project, or provide your own on the
command line when you run it.

To use to a remote RabbitMQ installation set the following properties:

```
spring:
  rabbitmq:
    host: <rabbitmq-server>
    username: <tutorial-user>
    password: <tutorial-user>
```

To use this at runtime create a file called `application-remote.yml` (or properties) and set the properties in there.  Then set the
remote profile as in the example above.  See the Spring Boot and Spring AMQP documentation for more information on setting application
properties and AMQP properties specifically.

Commit message:

Explain how to build the tutorials; provide examples that are JAR version-agnostic

spring-amqp/README.md, after:

# RabbitMQ Tutorial Using Spring AMQP

This project implements each of the [6 RabbitMQ Tutorials][1] using Spring AMQP.

It is a CLI app that uses Spring Profiles to control its behavior.  Each tutorial is a trio of classes:
sender, receiver, and configuration.

[1]: https://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html

## Usage

These tutorials use Maven. To build them run

```
mvn package
```

The app uses Spring Profiles to control what tutorial it's running, and if it's a
Sender or Receiver. Choose which tutorial to run by using these profiles:

- {tut1|hello-world},{sender|receiver}
- {tut2|work-queues},{sender|receiver}
- {tut3|pub-sub|publish-subscribe},{sender|receiver}
- {tut4|routing},{sender|receiver}
- {tut5|topics},{sender|receiver}
- {tut6|rpc},{client|server}

After building with maven, run the app however you like to run boot apps.

For example:

```
java -jar target/rabbit-tutorials-*.jar --spring.profiles.active=work-queues,sender
```

will run the publisher part of tutorial 2 (Work Queues).

For tutorials 1-5, run the consumer (receiver) followed by the publisher (sender):

```
# shell 1
java -jar target/rabbit-tutorials-*.jar --spring.profiles.active=work-queues,receiver

# shell 2
java -jar target/rabbit-tutorials-*.jar --spring.profiles.active=work-queues,sender
```

For tutorial 6, run the Server followed by the Client.

##C onfiguration

When running receivers/servers it's useful to set the duration the app runs to a longer time.  Do this by setting
the `tutorial.client.duration` property.

```
java -jar rabbitmq-tutorials.jar --spring.profiles.active=tut2,receiver,remote --tutorial.client.duration=60000
```

By default, Spring AMQP uses localhost to connect to RabbitMQ.  In the sample, the `remote` profile
causes Spring to load the properties in `application-remote.yml` that are used for testing with a
non-local server.  Set your own properties in the one in the project, or provide your own on the
command line when you run it.

To use to a remote RabbitMQ installation set the following properties:

```
spring:
  rabbitmq:
    host: <rabbitmq-server>
    username: <tutorial-user>
    password: <tutorial-user>
```

To use this at runtime create a file called `application-remote.yml` (or properties) and set the properties in there.  Then set the
remote profile as in the example above.  See the [Spring Boot](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/)
and [Spring AMQP documentation](http://docs.spring.io/spring-amqp/reference/html/) for more information on setting application
properties and AMQP properties specifically.
